https://www.reddit.com/r/oscp/comments/lbcdto/the_ultimate_oscp_preparation_guide_2021/

The Ultimate OSCP Preparation Guide, UPDATED: 2021
Update Notes
Due to popular demand, and some additional observations that have been brought to my attention, I have made the following revisions:

-Expanded on some of the instructional language [to reduce confusion]
-Added additional information to skill-based-tips
-Implemented a King of the Hill TryHackMe practice section
-Expanded the OSCP notetaking section to reflect my thought processes
-Removed unnecessary reliance upon Hacking books and instead made it optional [due to many complaints about dated material]
-Added information about TryHackMe lesson recommendations for beginners
-Fixed TryHackMe Offensive Security Path URL [Now known as Offensive Pentesting]
-Minor improvements to PWK enumeration considerations.
-Various improvements to p/much all sections within this guide

Note: To anyone who has this URL embedded somewhere, it will remain the same to avoid breaking these external references.

Understanding this guide
When I first began my hacking journey, I would bookmark guides and resources like a madman. If you’ve contemplated tackling the OSCP, you know what I’m talking about: You’re browsing google, trying to figure out what the secret sauce is for starting the course, taking the exam, and quite frankly, passing the exam.

There are a ton of issues with the method of bookmarking everything. The most prominent issue is resource overload. I don’t know about you, but, I’ve reviewed my bookmarks at one point and said to myself:

“Oh my God, where do I even start? Do I study commands? Do I learn to code? Do I use TryHackMe or HackTheBox?”

This was the most stressful part of the growing pains that come with the OSCP. I’m going to attempt to take the stress out of this effort for you. Instead of writing some redundant experience of what the exam was like for me, and sprinkling all of my tips throughout the text. I’m going to attempt a much different approach in this guide:

1. Create segmentation between where beginners should start vs. intermediate hackers.
2. Create separate tip sections for beginners and intermediate hackers.
3. Highlight pre-examination tips & tips for taking the exam.

Why would I take the time to create so much segmentation?
Accessibility. You’re not here for me; you’re here for you. Forgive me if I come off as a little philosophical. I believe that my exam attempt will not be like your exam attempt. I don’t want anyone to get stressed out trying to scrape through a writeup to get tips or deduce anything that is untrue about the exam based off of my attempt. I would prefer to give you the tools to prepare for your own attempt. You can determine what type of experience I had with this guide.

For Beginners
First and foremost, if you’re new to hacking, welcome to the insanity that is Penetration Testing! (If you’ve been hacking for a while and are looking to get straight into OSCP tips, skip to “Intermediate Hackers”) You may have stumbled upon this guide because you’re new, but you have a mountain to climb. You want to obtain the OSCP…it seems impossible, but I promise you. It’s not.

Hacking is fun! The rush of cracking into a system and getting a reverse shell is priceless. However, If this is you, we have some work to do:

/uploads/here.jpg

The funniest part about this meme is the sheer amount of truth that it carries. When you’ve been hacking for a bit, you’ll start to understand why this meme exists.

The prerequisites for starting your Penetration Testing journey:
1. A basic understanding of Networking: Everything taught in CompTIA’s Network+ Course
2. Security Practices and Network/Host defense principles: Everything taught in CompTIA’s Security+ Course.

If you were to buy some Udemy courses that go through all of the Network+ and Security+ materials, you would be in a far better place to start hacking. I consistently have been asked by beginners for hacking resources or mentoring. I began to notice a reoccurring theme when lecturing others: I would presume that people who are interested in hacking have this essential skill set. Still, I’ve found that my presumptions were usually wrong.

Money seems to be a common issue. That’s fine, there are workarounds. For example, here are free YouTube playlists offered by Professor Messer:

Free Network+ Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLG49S3nxzAnmpdmX7RoTOyuNJQAb-r-gd

Free Security+ Video Series
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLG49S3nxzAnnVhoAaL4B6aMFDQ8_gdxAy

Free != bad
I’ve personally watched both the Net+ and Sec+ playlists when I originally prepared for the examinations and I promise you, I learned a lot. I highly recommend watching these.



(see more in URL above)
